yes very serious very serious
welcome uh to gui and in web browsers
by weekly call which was over a month
ago
so this is a 10th of november 2020
and we will start with a really strain
um so i will quickly share my screen
and then raphael's slash jessica will
take over can you see my screen
yes yep yes so
ipfs desktop 0.13
and i'd say 0.13 because there's 0.132
with
fixes for windows auto update however
um 0.13 had a
new web ui new go ipfs 0.7
switch to new the latest electron
version
so to get 0.13 goodness
just pick the latest one because that
includes
auto updates fixes for windows users
if you are windows user and when you try
to auto update you get that infinite
loop
uh apologies for that it's not fully our
fault
so what you need to do is
to go to ipfs desktop releases
and download uh installer for
13.2 install it manually it's just
this one release that you need to
install manually
from this point going forward you should
get proper auto updates on windows
platform
we also added chocolaty and snapcraft
publishing as a part of our pipeline so
if you prefer to use
those package managers or any other
package manager maintained by
our com ipfs community feel free to do
that
i will start my screen sharing now
because
as a part of this release we improved
or fixed depending on the platform
native integrations for mac
and windows i guess raw file do you want
to demo
i do but i'm still installing because it
releases a bit so jessica how is your
mac os
thing um so i'm gonna cheat a little bit
and i'm just gonna share
my screen that contains an animated gif
of the action because otherwise i'd have
to share my entire screen and that
would be massive so no one will notice
you should here we go
hey that's pretty well it's in a browser
so basically um you can see my massive
ipfs desktop here in this window
um wait till this starts over see i'm
taking the cat of the day and i'm
dragging it up to my menu bar this is
the
the most underrated little known feature
of ipfs desktop from mac is you can drag
things to the menu bar
and it works beautifully
i should have taken longer because
raphael is still installing
but that said one thing we do um i i did
highlight
that as a feature a little bit more
heavily in the rewrite of um ipfs
desktop readme
and um we'll continue to emphasize that
further
in uh other places where we let people
know about
desktops feature set because i'm a bit
embarrassed as to how long it took me to
realize that that was a feature because
i didn't read our own release
yeah and what's also cool we do the same
thing
that ipfs companion browser extension
does we when you do that
you we automatically copy a shareable
link
to the clipboard yeah yeah so that's a
super fast way of sharing files um
rafael uh blink once if you can do the
demo
or link twice if i should go with
companion all right
so i'll go with components what's sort
of great things away
all right um so
we did not have this call for a while
and we had three releases of ipfs
companion so i'll go
from the oldest one uh it's a stable
release from the stable channel so if
you just installed companion from the
add-on or extension store you probably
are on this version
we added a way of displaying
release notes on combining updates
import
of big files through that
quick import share
[Music]
menu item it's now not only faster but
you are able to upload a very big files
for gigabytes or more
um through your browser thanks to the
work
by kosala and akingbrain
we have a better controls for
um obtain and opt out
from ipfs integrations
per website so we keep now when you
toggle this toggle in
menu we
store an explicit record for
is it like opt-in or opt-out and you're
able to edit those
uh lists uh from the preferences screen
however
every time you toggle here we apply this
change
and that means all ipfs integrations are
disabled
uh so those integrations uh by that i
mean
things that could change the website
things that change either the dom
or things that redirect let's say
redirect from
original http server to a local host
node if you have
one and you if you have redirect enabled
so all the integrations provided by
companion can be
disabled for a specific website if you
find that you get better performance
either way or if you want to quickly see
how the behavior changes
between original url
and the one on localhost we also
got support for ipfs uris
those uris are now official
and we are working towards adding
support
for them to web browsers to
like native means for now only ipf
only firefox provides an api for browser
extension to
like formally register a handler that
handler
is still redirect-based and
but it works in firefox the problem is
the identifiers in those uris
are case sensitive and browser
forces lower case on them so if you use
a
case sensitive identifier such as cid v0
you will see this error page now
which is improved by jessica
hopefully this will give you an idea
what went wrong
and how to fix it generally when in
doubt
just use cidv1 but if you need to use
cidv0
this screen should help you
and in chromium 86 ipfs
ipns i and i believe deweb and a bunch
of other newer
protocol handlers got safe listed so
we hope to see similar level of
integration
in chromium based browsers in the future
and we had two beta releases recently
uh one had a switch to webpack
five which is not visible to users but
decreased uh
bundle size a little bit and now when
there's a new version of ipfs companion
you will see this
eye icon and when you click on it you
will be able to read release notes
so in this version we experimented with
opening
errors notes on in a new tab but that
was kind of
intrusive so we switched to this
approach
by default you only see this icon but in
preferences you will be able to
opt in to opening that in the new tab
and in the latest beta which shipped
just 16 hours ago
we got this improvement uh
are you demoing this i can't see it
are you joking to me
really is it like a black don't no no no
i i see the hackmd
yeah just oh my gosh i've been looking
at the wrong screen
all the time no
this is ridiculous i feel so bad
so i've been like showing you all those
tabs before
so let's just pretend you so
all those tabs now quickly um here
the changes are around this toggle
and there is this nice uh error page now
and in beta releases we got uh this
i icon which tells you oh there's a new
release and you can
read what's new in this new release and
in the latest
ipfs component we moved
some actions to those buttons and
we now when you are on dns link website
you are able to not only copy shareable
link to the
canonical address of a website but you
can copy a link to a snapshot of this
website which will never change
and same if you want to just get an ipns
path
uh it's also here so thanks jessica for
uh pushing this uh forward it's been
around for
months so i feel really bad that we did
not land this sooner but it's really
good
and the original work on that
um came from contributor detail fake so
he deserves the original credit for that
yep yep thanks for to everyone who
pushed this rock forward
i feel really bad that i did not
share my screen from the very very
beginning
but uh just the last item on my list
uh rafael just blink once or twice
but after i'm done with this okay okay
uh so um we got this project called ipfs
go ip and it's uh just
um let me maybe
give a credit where credit is due so
um it includes a girl light to
data a set provided by max mind
which is a license on creative commons
and
a custom license but it's free to use as
long as you follow their license
what's cool about this project is that
we took that data set and we
represented it as a dag and put it on
ipfs
so that enabled you to
do dna dns lookups
to know what's like the country and city
is behind that ip without fetching
entire data set you only traverse the
dag
and only fetch nodes that are relevant
to your specific ip range
which works pretty well in web browsers
and
the problem was our data set was pretty
old
uh so we spent some time
to account for changes in the input
format and now we got the latest data
set from
october i believe and that means there's
no longer like faster than light
travel in ipfs uh in the past you could
see
uh peer in europe seeing
a node in from us and have a ping
uh around 20 milliseconds which is not
possible
that that's because people are trading
ip ranges
and something that was in us now maybe
in europe and vice versa
so now uh this updated data set will
land in
uh the new version of go ipfs as well
but i just wanted to mention it
because people been asking why ipfs is
faster than light so i fixed that
so that's it i believe for the real
strain
raphael wants to show you something so i
will stop sharing my screen
right can you hear me yep
all right great why did i just hear the
train
it was a release train
nice let me
share the screen
and i guess you can see my screen now
yes
perfect yes nice so what little one
wanted me to show is that when you have
something you want to add to ipfs
on your file explorer you can just right
click on it
and click on the option called add to
ipfs
and it it will add you to your local
node and then it will also copy a link
to your clipboard
if you want to share it with someone
else as well so there's the link for
our little caddy probably gonna take me
a while to figure it out because i don't
have everything installed here but
yeah it is pretty basic feature that
works pretty well on windows
cool yeah and it's yet another thing
that
unless you actually click the right the
context menu you would not know
it's there
cool let's see what's next
the next one is a quick update on
pinning services
so let me
try to share the right screen this time
is the right screen is it oh gosh
yep so uh pinning services um
the updates are we shipped 0.1.2
which had a small cosmetic change
in how we do the search based on name
previously it was case insensitive
partials
partial match which is not the best
thing to do by default
it's hard to optimize so we switch that
to
exact case sensitive match
and added a much filter when you can
change the behavior so if you
really need a case insensitive or a
partial match
you need to specify that if you don't
specify this parameter
the search for your pin will be doing
the exact match
[Music]
and that's something we wanted to align
due to the fact that while we are we've
been working on remote pinning
services and remote pinning api in go
ipfs
which is work in progress right now
um we realized we we also want to
improve
local pinning so
be cognizant that while we are adding
remote pinning first
some of benefits some of additional
capabilities introduced in remote
pinning
will all will eventually land
in go ipfs and be possible to use
in local pinning context namely
we it will be possible to attach a name
to a pin so you no longer will have a
list of nameless
cds you will be able to attach
like meaningful name to a pin and then
find
a pin at some point in the future
when you want to get back to it and
manage it
so that work that's its work in progress
in go ipfs and also
uh in js http client we need uh
http client because it will be used by
web ui
so we expect
ipfs pin remote commands to land in go
ipfs 0.8 release candidate 1
this week or maybe next week and then we
will
add those new commands to iphone's http
client
and then rafael who just finished
stage one integration of pinning
services
we'll be able to wire it up and
start working on stage two
my understanding is that the stage one
of the pinning
integration is not
adding support for remote pins but
reframing the support for local pins so
it
will look natural for us to
add remote pins yes
yeah so that's uh
that's that um
yeah and then there is uh
exciting probably for some folks
it's pretty low level but i mentioned it
because it's gui web
and we use local host
subdomain gateways for loading websites
from local ipfs node
and if in case anyone is interested in
low-level
details around host names for localhost
http gateway
i posted some updates across different
vendors we got intent to implement
secure context on localhost in chromium
and it's effectively
done because they mark it as secure
context for
subdomains the problem was firefox where
localhost itself was secure context but
subdomains were not
so here i was linking to a bunch of
ongoing work
however you can see
that a bunch of
patches landed in the past weeks
in firefox uh
effectively aligning it with what
google chrome does and we now
will have a secure context on localhost
subdomains
without doing anything fancy we no
longer need
http proxy and we get a secure context
and what's really exciting about this
work is it's not just about chromium and
firefox we
are working to with igalia towards
creating
web platform tests that will ensure
uh that behavior on localhost is the
same across
all the browsers so we we reached
we are reaching out to webkit team as
well
to align the behavior with what chromium
and firefox do and we hope the web
platform tests will be a good way of
kind of like softly enforcing the
behavior across different
vendors so it's been a long time
in the works and i'm super excited that
it finally landed
um i believe
that's all on my end uh
the remaining part are mid q4
or qr check like it's like
excuse me emit q4 okr check-in but
in case you got anything else to add i'm
open to doing that before
borrowing or qr checking which is not
boring it's exciting of course
that's all i got same
yeah just a teaser we will be landing
pinning services soon
we will have a improved peer
screen in web ui at some point if some
people will do that
so stay tuned um
okay are checking i can share my screen
yes please if people don't like
spreadsheets that's the moment when you
need
you can like switch the tab pretend you
don't see the screen
um yeah yeah so
i i'd say just very quickly going over
those
our p0 focus was and
is still pinning services
um i'd say
things like uh
gui apps ship with flaws for interacting
with cleaning services
we are actually
over like 50 i'd say like we are around
60 or 70 percent because like stage one
is effectively
delivering entire user interface that we
need to and then
the only remaining part is to wire it up
so
how do we feel about like 60 to be very
yeah i'd say 60. i've got some
documentation
debt on that that um didn't make any
sense to hit
until we shipped what's about to land
like the joyride help text and and how
that gets reflected in the docs
yeah i'm pretty sure we got
to collabs to implement the api however
i know there is ongoing integration
and testing work between go ipfs
and our initial partners so i would put
that like
80 percent because the remaining part is
integration tests when go ipfs 0.8
rc1 and following one's ship
no risk here web ui reports
progress while importing four gigabyte
file so
um iraqi fixed imports of big files
uh however the reporting is a separate
thing uh i'm i
checked in with him yesterday he's not
on the call but
i believe it's like let's make it 80
because it's actually done but the pull
request in in review
and it's a complicated one across
different repos so i'd say it's safe to
say
20 more to land it
because it's never that easy
um we don't have any tests
no i mean like we don't have conformance
tests which people
would be able to run against the repo we
got
tests in sharna's test in go ipfs repo
so that could be like 0.
2. um
maybe maybe we will hit it uh
hopefully that depends uh if if we have
bandwidth for that
we mostly focus on ensuring that
our initial partners work
fine and i think we will then take those
learnings and create
like generic conformance tests uh which
can
be run by like third parties
or additional pinning services um
[Music]
but that did not that did not end up
being a priority right now
and the last one is pinning service api
spec frozen tagged as uh
1.0 i'd say we are close to that
i expect uh to tag
uh 1.0 when go ipfs 0.8
ships with pinning service integration
uh
that would be kind of like a flagpole
saying okay
this is how the spec work works we
integrated with third-party partners
and we got gui support we got support
in our jshcp client so that will be a
moment when with
tag and freeze the only change was the
one which i described
around uh search and it's still
backwards compatible
we had no braking changes we don't
expect any braking changes so that's why
it's like 80 percent um
[Music]
improve technical ergonomics for
efficient web development
i wish iraqi was around i'm going to
skip mine
yours are done you're like yeah but i
want to explain them
to anybody who might be on this call
to be to be completely honest um we'd
included the item that's highlighted
right now
as let's do as much as we can
when we are not working on pinning
services and um
painting services work as might be
expected got unexpectedly large
but then that said we have been pushing
through as many
sort of small scale improvements as we
can um
in the backlog the things that we went
over earlier the caller a good example
um small but very useful changes um and
even within
the the pinning service ui setup work
we have managed to actually just make
some improvements
to webinar and desktop overall so we'll
say
that that is halfway at the halfway mark
with completion at the full mark um
second item on that list
is doing some research and making some
recommendations some testing based
recommendations on
information architecture improvements to
the ipfs.io website
this isn't really a visual design effort
so i hesitate to say that we're
redesigning
the website but we are trying to make
some very um
information packed updates and
improvements to that site um
there is a link in that master document
with an outline as well as a wireframe
for anybody who's curious about digging
deeper it's probably not worth going
into right now
um but then also putting together uh
sort of a series of prd documents for
the key recommendations that we want to
make
cool thanks um
i think we are good on those um yeah so
improving technical ergonomics of
efficient for efficient web development
it's a pretty vague term for
a bunch of work that iraqi has been
doing
and also we've been improving um
developer nodes across our different
repos we've being simplifying
uh like improving ci
setups uh i think the biggest
thing here is adding uh is iraqis work
on adding typescript
and then adding ci setup for
guarding contributed
poll requests to automatically check if
typescript definitions are still valid
for the project um i'm not
really sure i think it's
yeah i think it landed in js ipfs so
it's all
it's probably around eighty percent uh
because
adding uh typescript to js ipfs was a
long long uh ongoing
battle uh for rocklin and he finally
shipped it
uh it's also like not 100 percent
uh maybe we will adjust it later but
i feel pretty optimistic about it being
80 percent
um not everything is covered by
typescript but
those consumer facing
apis are so i think
it's we can like assume
it may improve it will probably not
be the end this quarter um
the next one is dependence on external
ci is removed publishing
packaging and signing is automated so we
moved away from
third party cis and
use github actions for desktop i don't
and
i believe companion we are still using
circle ci for
web ui so i'd say
uh 60
percent given that
gosh let's let's call it 16.
um i think it's fairly to be if
it's fair to be optimistic and say uh we
will
be done with this by the end of the
quarter uh because
moving away from from github actions for
web ui will be easier than it was for
desktop we don't have any secrets we
don't have any like
magical build pipelines in just a matter
of replacing the build
another thing is we had some help from
ollie to redo this website
to not fetch entire thing he's also like
moving into github actions i believe
so it's ongoing
but we are mostly done with our gui
applications
i don't think we did much progress with
metrics yeah i started tracking
uh total oh gosh i started tracking
total downloads for um
ipfs desktop on github and i figured out
that number
may be useful in the relative terms so
the number right now is like 700k
but what i'm looking at is comparing um
the difference between like each week
how
many new uh downloads were
occurring each week the problem here is
that those downloads
are downloads of our installation
packages
but not all of them because a bunch of
them
happens through third-party package
managers
at the same time github is counting all
those auto-update checks
made a few times a week or like 12
hour each 12 hours depending
how someone if someone is shutting down
their machine or not
so that's the kind of like very fuzzy
number
but at the same time it's useful for
watching trends so if we see that
the difference between week to week
right now i believe it's
around 10k increase each week so that's
like both downloads
and checks but if we see that number
like
growing or shrinking we see
a trend around ipfs desktop is was it
like mentioned somewhere
did we got more users that way um but we
did not do
much here and i didn't expect we will do
it wasn't it wasn't something that we
built this quarter i think i
set up this reporting last quarter but
we do have
weekly monitoring and the metrics that
we're collecting in countley and so
um i've also been keeping an eye on
your fatal and non-fatal crash events on
that weekly
report just to see if we're anything
we need to be extremely aware of
oh yeah totally like revisiting
currently is also
probably part of this and we did not
have time this quarter to
look at it i'd say we probably won't
uh given the all the other stuff
happening
and to be honest i think there's a
certain amount of um
i'm i'm inclined to wait and see
do a deeper metrics analysis of what we
might need once printing services lands
um to be able to really do reporting on
that justice
yep so should i leave like this
out or i think we actually just i think
we actually just dropped that
and with the note that we have been
doing some continuing monitoring
okay because the need really it hasn't
been as much of a need as we thought it
was going to be anyway
for this border yeah do you have access
to the spreadsheet can you like a
note on grading yeah okay um
the design exists for ipfs based hosting
and auto updates for fpfs desktop
did not nothing happened around this but
it was like p3
uh however we probably i had some
discussions around that with
uh dean ollie and others and we realized
it would not be something specific to
ipfs desktop
we most likely would have to figure it
out
auto update mechanism which is based on
ipfs maybe ipns
and apply it to go ipfs
and other libraries and tools that we
have
and ipfs desktop would be just a
consumer of that
like a general purpose um
library or a setup that we
figured out at one point uh
around ipns the problem is secret
management
uh right now the
original publisher needs to republish um
a record ips record every like 12 hours
or something
if it stops people won't be able to get
updates
so it's probably something for 2021
ongoing collapse and grants are
supported
a bunch of work happened in brave we've
been working
on with them around embedding go ipfs
around tweaking the default parameters
of go ipfs
uh the ui for onboarding user
when you first time visit ipfs console
slash or a public gateway
you are prompted hey do you want to open
this uh
via a public gateway or do you want to
start your local node and load it from
it
so a bunch of discussions we
i believe we've passed security review
this week
uh and uh still uh i won't
give a date for shipping this but we are
on on track for that
so i'd say it's like eighty percent uh
done
um what remains to be done
is uh testing
it's behind the flag in the brave
nightly and then
all the release dance comes and stuff
that
needs to happen either by in december
or in january that's all i can
say um
igalia is helping us to
improve protocol handlers and local
security
so i feel really good about
our progress on localhost front
we did not do anything on the
webkit part but the merge of
web ui yeah oh gosh a merge
of those local host patches in firefox
it was a huge win so
i'm pretty happy about this maybe like
the problem is
it's a big win but it's just a single
browser um
so i think it's safe to say like
not sure how to score this because it's
like a long going collaboration
um at the same time it was p3
so it was mostly us supporting igalia
does not really matter what we've put
here
would i would
keep it like this for now uh on the kiwi
side
unfortunately nothing happened
when it comes to storing zim files on
ipfs but we've made some pro small
progress
on uh making kiwis archives to be more
useful when loaded from http website
so that's not something that we were
doing
uh as an ipfs project but we've been
having some discussions with cubics
project
and helping them to
make the
format in which they store wikipedia
snapshots
more seekable via range requests or
byte requests in ipfs and that's
kind of like preparation for putting
entire
um snapshots on ipfs um
that's my quick rambly way of going
through them
how do you feel about those okrs
as expected as expected yes
no i mean there was nothing that felt
really alarming or
out of whack in these this is sort of
what we anticipated at the beginning of
the quarter which means we're starting
to
get a good feel for the cadence of our
planning and what we
what we are capable of yep i think the
problem with our qrs was that
we were super focused on pinning
services
and we've pulled like we've put a lot of
uh
priority there and that's and
given the fact that nearly all p0s
for us even like brave was kind of like
it's expected to to ship this year maybe
i'll adjust it to
0.9 because it could be january
just to be just to be totally honest but
the problem was that now that we are
pretty confident that we'll
be able to ship winning services this
quarter uh that impacted our projection
to be kind of too high
but that's mostly a product of the fact
that p0s gets
the most weight when you calculate the
total score
but i feel it's pretty good
i'll check in with iraqi around items
which i
kind of filled in his on his behalf
so we may adjust some numbers uh later
this week but i feel
that's more or less how where we are
now uh of course like pinning services
is priority
for this group and we will do
our best to ship it with core
implementations working group
with go ipfs 0.8 there will be new web
ui
there will be new uh http clients
uh eventually in js ipfs there will also
be
a remote spinning service support so the
the pin remote
and namespace will be part of core api
and we'll have pin local as well which
will give people ability to assign
names to pins but i'm not sure if that
will happen this quarter
i'm pretty sure the remote pinning will
happen this quarter
that's it on my end any last
minute exciting breaking news
no nothing exciting
all right uh thanks so much uh
for joining after a long
long time when we did not have this call
thanks for to anyone who's actually
watching this
sorry for not being around and being
betrayed
be trusted when it comes to this call uh
we'll try to do
this bi-weekly um especially like this
following this quarter when we'll start
landing pinning services
expect uh some uh visual demos
uh that next time but that's it for now
bye
you